Dear ZHdK Master Design admissions team

I want to pursue a master’s in game design because I want to study game design - TODO
In addition to enjoying playing video games, I have always been interested in analyzing game mechanics, stories and exploring how games can be played. I hosted a speedrunning tournament for New Super Mario Bros. for the Nintendo DS with my friends at 11 years old, without knowing what speedrunning is (I won at ca. 45 minutes on the timer). Like many kids I dreamt of making my own games. Now, at 25 years old I would like to pursue that dream.

I have always been a creative mind

After completing high school and Swiss civil service, I started my studies by majoring in philosophy and minoring in informatics at UZH. While I learned that pursuing philosophy academically was not the right path for me, those two years taught me to think outside the box and gave me an appreciation for analyzing complex issues thoroughly and accurately. I decided to follow my interest in philosophy in my free time and switched to majoring in Software Systems. Now, I find myself missing engaging with philosophy in a professional manner and hope to incorporate it in future projects – in video games or music.

In my major in software systems, I learned software architecture, computer science and project management. The program has a focus on developing software efficiently in teams, as is the case in industry, and thus differs from a typical computer science program. As part of my studies, I completed two internships at Helbling Technik Wil AG, where I worked on multiple projects and was given increased responsibility over time. I first worked on a software simulation of a diagnostic device we developed for a customer. Rigorous code review and a well-structured development process allowed me to become a well-rounded software engineer.

In my second internship I first developed a test bench for a household appliance, which allowed me to gain experience with electronic hardware and how to write software that interacts with hardware. In the future, I would like to explore video game projects with hardware. I think I could create a unique experience for the player, and it would be an interesting research project for me. While games like that cannot be distributed digitally, it would be well-suited for an art exhibition or an arcade.  

My next project at Helbling was developing an application for taking and managing meeting notes and I was given full responsibility for the project. The experience as a project lead has since been very helpful in my bachelor’s thesis and I think would be very valuable in the game design master. Most struggles in projects are due to bad management – even if a project is self-managed by a single person.

After my first internship I took a part-time position at Helbling where I maintain the tools I developed and occasionally help out with software projects. In October 2025 I started work on my bachelor’s thesis which is due in April. I am writing a paper on the usability of applications that are used to configure neuromorphic hardware (which means analog chips that compute using silicon neurons, cool stuff: https://www.ini.uzh.ch/en/research/groups/ncs/research/Neuromorphic-Processors.html) at the department of neuroinformatics at UZH. For my thesis I have analyzed issues with previous applications, developed possible solutions for those issues and am now about to conduct a comparative structured observation study to evaluate my improvements’ effectiveness. I believe that the last six months of reading human-computer interactions literature and designing an application with usability as a focus will prove invaluable as a game designer.

I’m good at coding, why study design – TODO
Ending remarks – TODO
